STATUS of GAIM CVS tree. Last modified $Date: 2000-11-20 20:00:45 -0500 (Mon, 20 Nov 2000) $ by $Author: warmenhoven $.

This file is meant to provide gaim users who use the CVS version to see whether
they actually want to compile what they just checked out. Gaim CVS is usually
relatively stable (we use it all the time), but has tendencies to be quirky at
times.


OVERALL
=======

The current CVS tree is more or less back to "normal". It seems to be stable,
and allows multiple connections (which should also be stable).

There have been a lot of changes in the past month; I think all of the bugs
have been worked out but I'm sure there are still a lot remaining. Please, if
you get bored one day, go on a big bug hunt.


MULTIPLE CONNECTIONS
====================

I'm impressed that this is working. It took a major restructuring of the
internals of gaim. Everything had been based around one connection, and that
connection used one protocol or the other. Now, there are many connections, and
each connection may be using a different protocol. This change should be nearing
completion now; most things are working and there are very few FIXME's related
to multiple connections left.


BUDDY LIST
==========

The buddy list should now be stable. The only thing that'll be missing is if
you're signed on as more than one name, the tooltips and idle times for buddies
won't display correctly.


TOC
===

TOC is working reasonably well. The options to use a proxy got moved to the
account editor, and are set up on a per-account basis, in case you were
wondering.


Oscar
=====

Oscar is working reasonably well. Please see gaim/libfaim/README.gaim for more
details on Oscar.


Applet
======

The applet should be stable and completely functional now (as far as the applet
part of it goes).


Plugins
=======

The plugin system got a good reworking. It's got a few more features now. Nearly
every plugin is going to need to be rewritten.  Have fun porting from 0.10.x to
0.11.0 (it's actually very simple).


Perl
====

Perl also got a good reworking, but also has a few more features now. Again,
porting from 0.10.x to 0.11.0 should be simple, but read the docs to see what's
going on.
