Failure

Today's been a failure.  I've tried to install NetworkManager and
Galago on my computer, but it's much harder than I thought.  The
essense of the problem is that there are two DBus versions around: the
older and still popular 0.23 and the new 0.34.  

<p> Gaim dbus support requires the new 0.3x version.  For some
mysterious reason, i386 is the only architecture for which Debian
supplies only version 0.23.  So to develop Gaim dbus support I had to
install 0.34 from source.  In other words, I have two DBus versions
running on my computer: the DBus system bus runs version 0.23 and the
session bus runs 0.34.  Note that these versions differ not only in
library API but also in the public API available to other applications
through DBus.  As a result, 0.23 and 0.34 applications cannot talk to
each other.

<p> This is not a problem for Gaim, because it uses only the 0.34
session bus.  Unfortunately, both NetworkManager and Galago require
access to the system bus, therefore, to enable gaim to talk to these
services, they'd have to support DBus 0.34 and also I'd need to
upgrade my system bus to 0.34.  The latter task alone is almost
impossible because, as I said, Debian does not support 0.34 yet, and
compiling the system bus from source would require me to apply some
Debian modifications I have to clue about.  This is not to mention
that there's no guarantee that galago works with 0.34 at all.  It
looks that the chances of success are rather small here.

<p> Instead, I'm going to work on dbus-analize-functions.py.  At the
moment, this script generates server-side dbus bindings for gaim API
functions.  I'd like to modify it so that it can generate client
bindings as well.

